In this research, we work on generating a model that can predict accurately the GDP growth rate
of Germany by using Machine Learning techniques. The independent variables are the time-varying
correlation coefficients between the output gap of Germany and selected countries. By using Multiple
Linear Regression, Best Subset Selection, and considering Mallow’s Cp and R squared as the selection
criteria, the best possible model is successfully generated, and it has ten independent variables. The
produced model is accurate because it can forecast the sign of GDP growth rate of Germany correctly in
all years of the test set and its predictions can cover an acceptable part of the actual GDP growth rate
of Germany.
1 Introduction
Germany is the fourth-largest economy in the world. It is also the greatest economy in Europe. There is an
idea about analyzing the German economy as the core of Europe. The idea says the story of the economic
success of Germany can also be the economic success of other European countries. This idea wants to see
European countries as a network that has an economic heart named Germany.
By having such a big picture, it is also crucial to analyze whether Germany’s economy updates itself with
European and non-European partners and counterparts such United States of America and China. To find
the answer to this question, it is vital to research how the relationship between the economy of Germany and
other countries can explain and forecast the economic behavior of Germany. To do such kinds of research it
is needed to make meaningful data to answer the research problem because there is not any raw data which
have the power to meet the needs of the research question. At the same time, the applications of Machine
Learning Algorithms to predict the economic factors are highly used in economic research, and data scientists
are working hard to implement different learning techniques to predict the macroeconomic factors such as
inflation rate, unemployment rate, economic growth, and oil price. This research tries to build models which
are generated by Machine Learning techniques to estimate the growth rate of Germany. During this process,
time-varying correlation coefficients between the output gap of Germany and other countries are made and
used as independent variables to estimate the GDP growth rate of Germany.
